Let's begin our discussion of minimum
edit distance by defining minimum
edit distance.
Minimum edit distance is a way of solving
the problem of string similarity.
How similar are two strings.
So, let's pick a particular example,
spell correction.
The user typed G-R-A-F-F-E.
What do they really mean?
And one way of operationalizing this
question is asking which of the following
words is closer to
the letters that they typed.
Graf, graft, grail, or giraffe.
The problem of string similarity comes
up also in computational biology.
Where we have sequences of nucleotides,
ACGT we're trying to align.
And a good alignment should be able to
tell us that two particular sequences,
perhaps from two samples line up in
a certain way with some amount of error.
And this idea of string similarity or
sequence similarity comes up
from machine translation, for
information extraction, for
speech recognition, comes up everywhere.
So let's define edit distance.
The minimum edit distance between two
strings is the minimum number of editing
operations, insertion, deletion and
substitution, that are needed
to transform one into the other.
And we generally use these three
editing operations in search and
deletion and substitution.
You can imagine more
complicated trans positions and
long distance movements but
we tend to avoid those.
So, for example we have the string
in tension and the string execution.
Here's an alignment showing that
many of the letters line up.
And with some substitutions and
then there were some gaps where a gap here
lines up with a letter C in execution and
a gap in execution lines up with
letter I in intention and so on.
So, we can think about this alignment
as having a set of operations
that generated the alignment.
So here, to turn intention into execution,
we have to delete, d for delete, an i.
We substitute an N for
an E, substitute a T for
an X, insert a C, substitute an N for
U and the rest of the letters,
the E, the T, I, O, N are all the same.
So the edit distance,
if each operation is 1, is 5.
We had to do 5 things to turn
intention into execution.
If substitutions cost 2,
this is called Levenshtein distance.
In Levenshtein distance,
insertions and deletions cost 1 but
substitutions cost 2 and now the distance
between these two strings is 8.
In computational biology,
we've seen sequences of bases, and
our job is to figure out that this
A aligns to this A and this G to this G.
And maybe this T A and
T and C A C and so on.
So this C to here, so we can see that
there's some kind of insertion there.
And we can represent again
that alignment between
characters by showing this
aligned string of symbols.
So the task is given two sequences,
align each letter to a letter on a gap,
that's our task in biology.
Edit distance comes up all over the place.
In machine translation for example,
we'd like to measure how well
a machine translation system does.
So let's suppose that our
machine translation system
represented some sentence maybe
translated from Chinese as
the spokesman said the senior
adviser was shot dead.
And some human expert translator
said it should have been spokesmen
confirm senior government
adviser was shot.
So we can measure the difference
between these two
by saying how many words changed
confirms was substituted with said.
Words that were inserted,
the and words and dead and
words that were deleted government.
So a way of measuring how good are machine
translation is by comparing it to humans.
Similarly, in tasks like
named entity extraction,
we're going to want to know if IBM Inc and
IBM are the same entity, or
if Stanford University President
John Hennessy is the same entity as
Stanford President John Hennessy.
And we can do that by using edit distance
to notice that these are very similar with
one word different, and
here one word different.
And so by measuring the number of
words different, we can improve our
accuracy at main density extraction and
other kinds of tasks.
All right, so how are we going to
find this minimum edit distance?
Our intuition for
the algorithm is to search for a path, and
by path we mean a sequence of edits,
from the start string to the final string.
So we'll start with an initial state.
So that will be the word
we're transforming.
We'll have a set of operators.
Insertion, deletion, substitution.
And we'll have a goal state.
That's the word we're trying to get to.
And finally, we'll have a cost for
the path of getting there, and
that's the thing we're trying to minimize.
So that's the number of edits,
that's our path cost.
So for example, from intention,
here's a piece of a path.
From intention we could delete
a letter and end up with ntention.
We could insert a letter and
end up with eintention.
Or we could substitute a letter and
end up with entention.
So these are pieces along a path
that would go from intention,
all the way off the screen here into
all the possible ways you can transform
intention into something.
So this space of all possible
sequences is enormous.
So we can't afford to navigate
naively in this sequence.
And the intuition of solving this
problem of lots of possible sequences
is that lots of these paths
wind up at the same state.
So we don't have to keep track of every
way of transforming one string into
another if the second pieces of
the second string are identical.
All we have to keep is the shortest
path to every revisited state.
So let's look at an example
of how this works.
We're going to define minimum edit
distance formerly as, for two strings
we have string x of length n and
string y of length m.
We'll define a distance
matrix capital D of i,j.
And that would be the edit distance
between the first i characters
1 through i of x and the first j
character is 1 through j of string y.
So, that's what's defined by d of j.
And so the distance between the entire two
strings in going to be D of n command,
because the strings are length n,m.
So that's our definition
of Minimum Edit Distance.